{"newsFileName": "20748-adverse-weather-kills-24-people-over-170-000-affected", "heading": "Adverse weather kills 24 people, over 170,000 affected", "newsDate": "29", "newsMonth": "May", "publishedCategory": "Latest News", "firstContent": "At least 24 persons have died and more than 170,000 people have been affected due to the adverse weather conditions prevailed in Sri Lanka for nearly a week. Another 13 persons have been injured. According to the latest update from the Disaster Management Center (DMC), 174,310 persons belonging to 45,680 families have been affected due to the heavy pre-monsoon rains prevailed in 19 districts across Sri Lanka from 20th - 26th May.\n", "nextContent": "The disaster situation has displaced 70,376 persons from 17,976 families and they have been provided shelter in 265 safe locations. A total of 121 houses were fully damaged and 5,205 houses have been partially damaged. According to DMC, 166 small and medium enterprises and 88 critical infrastructures have been damaged due to the adverse weather.\nMeanwhile, water levels of main rivers are currently showing normal levels in many stations. However, one station is at Alert level in Kalu Ganga while Nil Wala River is falling slowly. All major reservoirs are at normal level although, some of reservoir gates are opened for release of flowing water from other areas to reduce flood threat.\nThe National Building Research Organization (NBRO) has still issued a landslide threat to Ratnapura, Kalutara, Kegalle, Nuwara-Eliya, due to potential earth slips and cut failures. All relief donating agencies are requested to work with Ministry of Irrigation, Water Resources and Disaster Management and may liaise with National Disaster Relief Services Centre (NDRSC) for relief assistance related matters, the DMC said.\nThe NDRSC has provided Rs. 44.15 million cash allocations to the 12 District Secretaries to address the immediate needs of the affected populations. Military troops are planned to mobilize to clean water wells and affected areas in next few days since many of water sources are contaminated with polluted water in affected areas. Other agencies with cleaning capabilities are requested to coordinate with NDRSC and respective Divisional Secretaries.\nMeanwhile, the Department of Meteorology said south-west monsoon has been established over the country and several spells of showers will be occurred in the afternoon in south western areas during next few days.\n", "externalNewsLink": "\u00ab Global tea consumption and production driven by robust demand helps Sri Lanka also"}