{"newsFileName": "20659-realise-grama-shakthi-goals", "heading": "\u2018Realise Grama Shakthi goals\u2019", "newsDate": "22", "newsMonth": "May", "publishedCategory": "President - Parliament - Prime Minister", "firstContent": "President Maithripala Sirisena yesterday made a fervent appeal to all parties and sections to eschew political differences and join hands for the realisation of the objectives spelt out by the Grama Shakthi Janatha Vyaparaya (People\u2019s Movement).\n", "nextContent": "He made this request when he attended the progress review meeting of the Grama Shakthi movement in Uva, held at the Badulla public library auditorium on May 21.A press release by the President\u2019s Media Unit said the implementation of the Grama Shakthi movement and the progress it has achieved so far in the Uva Province were reviewed at this meeting.\nBoth political representatives and State officials attended the meeting which paid detailed attention to the problems confronted by the people in Uva. The President, who heard the problems, discussed and advised officials on finding quick solutions. The President also directed that the bag factory in Koskanwala in the Welimada DS division which had put up shutters, be revived and restarted under the Grama Shakthi movement. The President also drew the attention of government officials towards a programme required to develop agriculture in the Moneragala district.\nThe President also instructed officials to take urgent steps to provide immediate relief to people affected by the heavy rainfall experienced in the region, pointing out that adequate rainfall had been received after five years, ending a long spell of drought. The President highlighted the importance of using that rainfall for agricultural development through proper management.\nThe President, who pointed out that the country could march towards a high rate of economic development only on the basis of an agro economy, said all should join hands without political differences to ensure the success of the Grama Shakthi programme launched with this objective in view. The President emphasized that all regional politicians should dedicate themselves towards the fulfillment of this objective.\nPeople\u2019s representatives of all hues who attended this meeting assured the President of their unreserved support and assistance to ensure the success of the Grama Shakthi movement. The Uva Grama Shakthi Horticulture Association and Hayleys Pvt Ltd signed a Memorandum of Understanding at this meeting. Under this MoU, Hayleys will purchase the produce of horticulturists in Uva at an agreed price and provide them with new technology and equipment to improve their industry. A project to cultivate ornamental flowers is being implemented in Welimade, Uva Paranagama and Haputale DS divisions under the contribution of Hayleys targeting local and foreign markets.\nThe first installments of government funds allocated to Grama Shakthi movement in Badulla and Moneragala districts were also handed over to the respective authorities by the President. Badulla received Rs. 22.5 million and Moneragala received Rs. 16.5 million. Ministers Nimal Siripala de Silva and Harin Fernando, Parliamentarian Dilan Perera and Uva Chief Minister Chamara Sampath Dassanayake were among the politicians present on the occasion.\n", "externalNewsLink": "\u00ab Temples will be protected - PM"}