{"newsFileName": "20406-buddhism-s-emphasis-on-non-violence-stands-as-a-powerful-call-for-peace-unsg", "heading": "Buddhism\u2019s emphasis on non-violence stands as a powerful call for peace \u2013 UNSG", "newsDate": "05", "newsMonth": "May", "publishedCategory": "World - Business", "firstContent": "The United Nations Day of Vesak was celebrated in New York on 1st May. The Permanent Mission of Sri Lanka to the United Nations in New York along with the Permanent Mission of Thailand took the lead in organizing this years\u2019 commemoration.\n", "nextContent": "The celebrations commenced on the morning of 1st May with a d\u0101na (alms giving) offered to over forty Buddhist monks representing Sri Lanka, Thailand, Myanmar, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, and the Republic of Korea, at the Sri Lanka Mission premises. Sri Lanka\u2019s Permanent Representative to the United Nations Ambassador Dr. Rohan Perera and senior diplomats from Thailand, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Myanmar, Laos, Bhutan, Nepal and Republic of Korea attended the ceremony and offered dana to the Maha Sangha. A number of lay persons, including the staff of the Missions of these countries were also present. Ven. Heenbunne Kondanna Thero, Chief Incumbent of the Staten Island Buddhist Vihara in New York conducted the religious ceremony.\nA solemn event to mark the Day of Vesak, co-chaired by Ambassador Dr. Rohan Perera and Ambassador Vitvihas Srivihok, Permanent Representative of the Kingdom of Thailand to the United Nations was held in the evening of 1 May from 6.30 to 8.30 p.m. at the United Nations General Assembly hall. A large number of Buddhist monks representing many countries, President of the General Assembly Mr. Miroslav Laj\u010d\u00e1k, UN Secretary-General Mr. Ant\u00f3nio Guterres, Permanent Representatives of Member States, senior diplomats, senior UN officials, staff of the Permanent Missions and the UN Secretariat, and communities from various countries attended this solemn event.\nAmbassador Rohan Perera delivered the opening remarks, highlighting the significance and relevance of the message of Buddha in addressing contemporary problems that affect the world today. Dr. Perera noted that, despite our best efforts, we are confronted with unprecedented challenges in the global order. In identifying the root causes of these conflicts, Ambassador Perera referred to the Buddha\u2019s teaching which states that \u201cwrong views\u201d are the reasons behind the challenges we face, and in order to tame these views, underlined the need to adopt \u201cSamma Ditti\u201d or right views within ourselves.\nThe President of the General Assembly (PGA) in his brief statement highlighted three principles from the teachings of the Buddha, which are sources of guidance to the activities of the United Nations; firstly, \u201cthe middle way\u201d, secondly metta (friendship) and karuna (kindness), and lastly the fundamental equality of people. He further noted that these same values are enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Mr. Laj\u010d\u00e1k concluded by saying that while the United Nations was not born of any religion, these timeless principles remain important to its work and that they \u201cshine a light on the path to peace \u2013 peace among nations, and peace within people.\nMr. Ant\u00f3nio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, paid reverence to the birth, enlightenment and parinirvana of the Buddha and emphasized the inspiration found in his message of service in order to become global citizens. Secretary - General Guterres stated that the Buddhist world view teaches us to see ourselves as a part of this world and not its masters, and Buddhism\u2019s \u201cemphasis on non-violence stands as a powerful call for peace.\u201d He concluded by referring to the focus in Buddhism on the inherent dignity of life, which finds resonance today in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.\nFollowing the remarks by the President of the General Assembly and the UN Secretary \u2013 General, the five precepts were chanted by the maha sangha of the Theravadha tradition and blessings were invoked by the venerable monks of the Mahayana tradition.\nA sermon was delivered by scholar monk, Bhante Henepola Gunaratana Thero, who is the founding abbot of the Bhavana Society, West Virginia and Chief Sangha Nayaka Thera for North America. In his sermon, said that Ven. Gunaratana the Buddha identified the global problem of humanity as \u201cuniversal suffering\u201d, with the root causes of this suffering being greed, hatred and conflict within ourselves. He called upon all to practice Metta to rid themselves of these feelings, and said that the teachings of the Buddha can only be found in the hearts and minds of the people.\nThe sermon was followed by a devotional song, \u2018Himi Sanaramara\u2019, performed by Visharadha Shalika Aroshini.\nRepresentatives of Bhutan, Bangladesh, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Norway, Russia, Singapore, and Vietnam, among others, addressed the General Assembly reflecting on the significance of the Day of Vesak.\nThe event was followed by a Dansala or distribution of alms in the lobby of the General Assembly Hall to all those who were in attendance.\n", "externalNewsLink": "\u00ab Lanka targets more tourist arrivals from Middle East"}