{"newsFileName": "20921-government-completed-moragahakanda-project-in-record-time-pm", "heading": "Government completed Moragahakanda project in record time: PM", "newsDate": "11", "newsMonth": "June", "publishedCategory": "President - Parliament - Prime Minister", "firstContent": "The previous government could not initiate the Moragahakanda reservoir project since they could not meet the cost. When the good governance government came into power in 2015, President Maithripala Sirisena laid the foundation stone for that project and completed it within a short period because we had foreign funds to achieve it, Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe said.\nHe was speaking at a ceremony held after opening the Galewela new Divisional Secretariat building complex on Saturday (9th). The Prime Minister said the government has planned many development activities. \u201cOur rivals are making allegations. None could mislead the majority and within the next two years, a cold store will be constructed near the Dambulla Economic Centre with the financial assistance of a Indian company,\u201d he said.\n\u201cAfter its completion, around 5,000 kg of vegetables and fruits could be preserved.The Indian company will handle its management,\u201d he said. The Prime Minister said the other infra-structure facilities in the area would be developed to improve other industries. \u201cMany self-employment ventures will be created to resolve the unemployment issue in the area, the Prime Minister said.\n", "nextContent": "The Premier said that during the last period, the government could renovate many rural tanks island-wide to strengthen the rural economy. \u201cOther tanks will be renovated soon and the farmer population could improve their living condition then,\u201d the Prime Minister said. The number of Samurdhi beneficiaries would be increased, the Prime Minister said.\n\u201cMany unfair things had occurred during the previous regime when Samurdhi recipients were selected. Such unfair acts do not happen now. The Samurdhi banks would be strengthened and the loan benefits will be increased for the beneficiaries,\u201d the Prime Minister said.\n\u201cIn addition, 15,000 acres in the Northern Province would be used for coconut cultivation while cultivation of other crops will be developed in the Matale, Kurunegala districts and Southern Province. The problems of unemployed graduates will be resolved since July,\u201d he said.\n\u201cThe government have to pay debts that the previous government had obtained. The income is insufficient to repay loans. We have enough strength to continue the government,\u201d the Prime Minister said. Home Affairs Minister Vajira Abeywardhana said that during the last 30 years, the entire administrative activities were declined. \u201cThe government have to develop it to provide a satisfactory service for the public. The building complexes for the district secretariats and divisional secretariats are constructed now to achieve the purpose,\u201d he said.\n\u201cAnother group of service centres are constructed in rural areas called Seva Piyasa so that public officers can carry out their services properly,:\u201d he said.\u00a0\u00a0 Ven. Dewahuwe Chandananda Thera, Home Affairs Deputy Minister J.C.Alawathuwela, Agriculture State Minister Wasantha Aluvihare, Dambulla UNP Chief Organizer Priyan Wijerarthna, Provincial Councillor W.M.Yasamana and Matale District Secretary S.M.J.K. Perera spoke.\n", "externalNewsLink": "\u00ab Program me should implemented to eliminate ragging says President"}