{"newsFileName": "20550-country-recorded-highest-fdi-exports-in-2017-pm", "heading": "Country recorded highest FDI, exports in 2017 - PM", "newsDate": "15", "newsMonth": "May", "publishedCategory": "President - Parliament - Prime Minister", "firstContent": "Sri Lanka recorded its highest Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) of USD 1900 million in 2017, said Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe yesterday. \u201cThis was in addition to the investment made to the Hambantota harbour. The country\u2019s highest exports was also recorded in the same year,\u201d the Prime Minister said.\n", "nextContent": "The Prime Minister said that more investment is expected this year with even higher Foreign Direct Investment and exports by 2020. \u201cThis would boost development in the country,\u201d the Premier said.\nPrime Minister Wickremesinghe made these observations at a ceremony held to present appointment letters to 4,511 recruits to the Public Management Assistant Service. The Prime Minister further said that since the conflict ended in 2009, the country has reached a standard where youth could be recruited to the public service.\nHe added in addition, the Good Governance government has created stability that has resulted in a condusive atmosphere where youth can be recruited to the public service, the setting up of Free Trade Zones, Tourist Zones and training youth through Yowun Senankaya to create employment opportunities.\u201cThe government had to take two years to get rid of the burden of loans,\u201d the Premier said. He also said when the Good Governance government was elected, the country\u2019s economy was in a precarious position and we were unable to settle the colossal loans obrained by the previous regime.\n\u201cWe have plans to create three more Free Trade Zones In Bingiriya, Kalutara and Weligama apart from the Hambantota Free Trade Zone,\u201d the Prime Minister said. \u201cBetween 1978 to 1992, only three Free Trade Zones were developed. But now, we have been able to construct four within the past two years. In addition, we plan to set up three Tourist Zones,\u201d the Premier added.\nThe Prime Minister also stated that the salaries of the Public Management Assistant Service would be increased on par with those of the private sector employees. He also said that the youth would be recruited to the public service, private sector job creation expanded, self employment projects promoted and a development bank set up to provide capital to the large scale businesses. The Prime Minister said the the Public Management Assistant Service acts as a mediator between the government and the public to implement these policies and develop the country allowing the people to enjoy the dividends of development.\nPublic Administration and Management Minister Ranjith Madduma Bandara and Minister Daya Gamage were also present.\n", "externalNewsLink": "\u00ab President meets Sri Lankan community in Iran"}