{"newsFileName": "20713-death-toll-rises-to-20-over-150-000-affected", "heading": "Death toll rises to 23, over 150,000 affected", "newsDate": "27", "newsMonth": "May", "publishedCategory": "Latest News", "firstContent": "At least 23 persons have died and more than 150,000 people have been affected due to the adverse weather conditions prevailing in Sri Lanka for nearly a week. Two people are missing and another 10 persons have been injured. According to the latest update from the Disaster Management Center (DMC) 153,712 persons belonging to 40,017 families have been affected due to the heavy pre-monsoon rains across Sri Lanka in 19 districts,\n", "nextContent": "The prevailing disaster situation in the country has displaced 55,553 persons from 14,265 families and they have been provided shelter in 265 safe locations. A total of 105 houses were fully damaged and 4,708 houses have been partially damaged\nAccording to DMC, 155 small and medium enterprises and 68 critical infrastructures have been damaged due to the adverse weather. Department of Irrigation has indicated that flooding levels of several major river levels are currently receding as of Saturday morning and showing normal levels in many stations. However, Kalu Ganga, Maha-Oya, Attanagalu-Oya are at flood level due to continuous rains during last 72 hours, the DMC reported.\nDue to the soil-moisture saturation in many hilly areas the National Building Research Organization (NBRO) has not lifted the landslide threat issued for Kegalle, Kalutara, Galle, Ratnapura, and Nuwara-Eliya. Meanwhile, the Department of Meteorology forecasts more rain in the south-western part of the island. Heavy falls of about l00 mm can be expected at some places in Sabaragamuwa, Western Central and North Western provinces and in Galle and Matara districts of Southern Province.\nMeteorology Department Director Athula Karunanayake said south-west monsoon is still suppressed by the persisting wind circulations and is expected to settle by the end of this week. The National Disaster Relief Services Center (NDRSC) has allocated Rs. 38.66 million to the most affected districts in order to assist the severely affected populations. A household resettling advance of Rs. 10,000 for 16 Districts has been transferred by NDRSC totaling Rs. 35.28 million.\nAgencies who are providing humanitarian assistance were directed to North-western areas and also some agencies are supporting communities in affected areas of Kalutara, Ratnapura & Puttalam. Meanwhile Army and Navy troops continued their rescue and relief operations across the flood-affected districts of Kegalle, Kalutara, Polonnaruwa, Kandy, Galle, Ratnapura, Gampaha, Puttalam, Matara, Kurunegala, Badulla, Colombo and elsewhere in close coordination with Disaster Management Centre, District and Divisional Secretariats.\n", "externalNewsLink": "\u00ab 19 dead, nearly 55,000 affected by severe weather"}